1. Snowflake Architecture
Beginner

1. What is Snowflake?
Snowflake is a cloud-based data platform designed for data warehousing, data engineering, analytics, and data sharing.

2. Explain Snowflake architecture.
Snowflake has three major layers:

Database Storage Layer – stores data in compressed columnar format.
Compute Layer – Virtual Warehouses execute queries.
Cloud Services Layer – handles authentication, metadata, query optimization, access control, transaction management, etc.

3. What is a Virtual Warehouse?
A Virtual Warehouse is a cluster of compute resources used to execute SQL queries and data-loading operations.

4. Does storage and compute share the same resources in Snowflake?
No. Snowflake separates storage and compute.

5. What is the advantage of separating storage and compute?
Different workloads can use independent compute resources without affecting each other.

Example:

ETL Warehouse       → Data loading
BI Warehouse        → Power BI/Tableau queries
Data Science        → ML workloads

6. What happens when a Virtual Warehouse is suspended?
Compute resources are stopped, but the data remains safely stored.

7. Does suspending a warehouse delete data?
No. Warehouse suspension only stops compute resources.

2. Micro-Partitions
Beginner

8. What is a micro-partition in Snowflake?
A micro-partition is a contiguous unit of storage used by Snowflake to store table data in a compressed, columnar format.

9. Does the user manually create micro-partitions?
No. Snowflake automatically creates and manages micro-partitions.

10. What is the typical size of a micro-partition?
Snowflake documentation commonly describes micro-partitions as containing roughly 50 MB to 500 MB of uncompressed data, though the actual size can vary.

11. What is micro-partition pruning?
Micro-partition pruning means Snowflake avoids scanning micro-partitions that cannot contain data matching the query condition.

Example:

SELECT *
FROM EMP
WHERE EMP_ID = 100;

If Snowflake's metadata determines that only a few micro-partitions can contain EMP_ID = 100, it can skip the others.

12. Why is micro-partition pruning important?
It reduces the amount of data Snowflake needs to scan, improving query performance and potentially reducing compute cost.

Intermediate

13. What metadata does Snowflake maintain for micro-partitions?
Snowflake maintains metadata such as:

Minimum value
Maximum value
Number of distinct values
NULL information
Other statistics

This metadata helps Snowflake perform pruning.

14. What is clustering?
Clustering is the organization of table data so that related values are concentrated in fewer micro-partitions, improving pruning for queries that frequently filter on those columns.

15. What is a clustering key?

Example:

CREATE TABLE SALES (
    SALE_ID INT,
    SALE_DATE DATE,
    CUSTOMER_ID INT,
    AMOUNT NUMBER
)
CLUSTER BY (SALE_DATE);

Here, SALE_DATE is the clustering key.

16. Is clustering required for every table?
No. Snowflake automatically manages micro-partitions, and many tables perform well without an explicit clustering key.

17. What happens if a table has poor clustering?
Queries may need to scan more micro-partitions, resulting in increased scanning and potentially slower queries.

3. Snowflake Stages

A very important interview area.

Students should remember:

Snowflake Stages
       |
       +---- Internal Stage
       |       |
       |       +---- User Stage
       |       +---- Table Stage
       |       +---- Named Internal Stage
       |
       +---- External Stage
4. User Stage

18. What is a User Stage?
A User Stage is an internal stage automatically associated with a Snowflake user.

Example:

@~

Each user has their own user stage.

19. How do you reference a user stage?

@~

20. Can multiple users share the same user stage?
No. A user stage belongs to a specific user.

21. When would you use a user stage?
For temporary or user-specific file storage and loading.

5. Table Stage

22. What is a Table Stage?
A Table Stage is an internal stage automatically associated with a table.

It is referenced using:

@%table_name

Example:

@%EMP

23. How do you upload a file to a table stage?

PUT file:///C:/data/emp.csv @%EMP;

24. Can you create a table stage manually?
No. It is automatically created for the table.

6. Named Internal Stage

25. What is a named internal stage?
A named internal stage is an explicitly created Snowflake stage used to store files inside Snowflake-managed storage.

Example:

CREATE STAGE my_stage;

Then:

PUT file:///C:/data/emp.csv @my_stage;

26. Why would you use a named stage instead of a user stage?
Named stages are easier to manage and share across users/processes through Snowflake access controls.

7. External Stage

27. What is an external stage?
An external stage is a Snowflake object that points to data stored outside Snowflake, such as:

Amazon S3
Microsoft Azure Storage
Google Cloud Storage

Example conceptually:

Snowflake
    |
External Stage
    |
    +---- Azure Blob Storage

28. Does an external stage store the actual data inside Snowflake?
No. The files remain in the external cloud storage location.

29. Why do we use an external stage?
It allows Snowflake to access files stored in external cloud storage for loading or unloading data.

8. PUT Command

This is another very common interview topic.

30. What is the PUT command?
PUT uploads files from a local machine to an internal Snowflake stage.

Example:

PUT file:///C:/data/emp.csv @my_stage;

31. Can PUT upload files directly into an external stage?
No. PUT is used to upload local files to internal stages.

32. What is the syntax of PUT?

PUT <file_uri> <internal_stage>
[ AUTO_COMPRESS = TRUE | FALSE ]
[ PARALLEL = <integer> ]
[ OVERWRITE = TRUE | FALSE ];

Example:

PUT file:///C:/data/emp.csv
    @my_stage
    AUTO_COMPRESS = TRUE
    PARALLEL = 4
    OVERWRITE = TRUE;
9. GET Command

33. What is the GET command?
GET downloads files from an internal Snowflake stage to a local directory.

Example:

GET @my_stage
    file:///C:/download/;

34. What is the difference between PUT and GET?

Command	Direction
PUT	Local → Internal Stage
GET	Internal Stage → Local

Easy way to remember:

PUT → Put files INTO Snowflake stage

GET → Get files FROM Snowflake stage

35. Can GET download files from an external stage?
No. GET is for downloading files from internal stages.

10. COPY INTO Command
Loading Data

36. What is COPY INTO?
COPY INTO is used to load data from a stage into a Snowflake table.

Example:

COPY INTO EMP
FROM @my_stage;

37. What is the difference between PUT and COPY INTO?

PUT
Local File
   ↓
Internal Stage

COPY INTO
Stage
   ↓
Snowflake Table

So:

PUT uploads files to a stage, while COPY INTO loads staged files into a table.

11. COPY INTO Options

These are particularly useful for interviews.

FILE_FORMAT

38. What is FILE_FORMAT?

It specifies the format of the input file.

Example:

COPY INTO EMP
FROM @my_stage
FILE_FORMAT = (
    TYPE = CSV
    FIELD_DELIMITER = ','
    SKIP_HEADER = 1
);
PATTERN

39. What is PATTERN in COPY INTO?

It allows us to select files using a regular expression.

Example:

COPY INTO EMP
FROM @my_stage
PATTERN = '.*emp.*[.]csv';

This can load only files whose names match the pattern.

ON_ERROR

40. What is ON_ERROR?

It specifies what Snowflake should do when errors occur while loading files.

Common options include:

ON_ERROR = 'ABORT_STATEMENT'
ON_ERROR = 'CONTINUE'
ON_ERROR = 'SKIP_FILE'

Example:

COPY INTO EMP
FROM @my_stage
ON_ERROR = 'CONTINUE';
FORCE

41. What is FORCE in COPY INTO?

It can be used to force Snowflake to load files that may otherwise be recognized as already loaded.

Example:

COPY INTO EMP
FROM @my_stage
FORCE = TRUE;
PURGE

42. What is PURGE?

It removes successfully loaded files from the stage after the load.

Example:

COPY INTO EMP
FROM @my_stage
PURGE = TRUE;

Important interview point:

PURGE should be used carefully because it removes files from the stage after successful loading.

RETURN_FAILED_ONLY

43. What is RETURN_FAILED_ONLY?

It controls whether COPY returns only files that failed to load.

Example:

COPY INTO EMP
FROM @my_stage
RETURN_FAILED_ONLY = TRUE;
12. COPY INTO Scenario Questions

These are excellent for interviews.

44. You have 100 CSV files in a stage, but you only want to load files beginning with sales_. What will you use?

Use PATTERN.

COPY INTO SALES
FROM @sales_stage
PATTERN = '.*sales_.*[.]csv';
45. A file contains a header row. How will you skip it?
FILE_FORMAT = (
    TYPE = CSV
    SKIP_HEADER = 1
);
46. You want the load to continue even when some records contain errors. What option will you use?
ON_ERROR = 'CONTINUE'
47. You want successfully loaded files to be removed from the stage. What option do you use?
PURGE = TRUE
48. Snowflake says a file was already loaded, but you want to load it again. What can you use?
FORCE = TRUE


Snowflake Interview Questions – Part 2
1. File Format Object
1. What is a File Format Object in Snowflake?

A File Format Object is a Snowflake object that defines how data files should be interpreted when loading or unloading data.

It contains properties such as:

File type
Field delimiter
Record delimiter
Header information
Compression
Date/timestamp formats
NULL handling
JSON/Parquet-specific settings
2. What file formats does Snowflake support?

Common formats include:

CSV
JSON
Avro
ORC
Parquet
XML
3. How do you create a CSV file format?
CREATE FILE FORMAT emp_csv_format
TYPE = CSV
FIELD_DELIMITER = ','
SKIP_HEADER = 1
FIELD_OPTIONALLY_ENCLOSED_BY = '"';

Then:

COPY INTO EMP
FROM @emp_stage
FILE_FORMAT = emp_csv_format;
4. Why create a File Format Object instead of specifying options every time?

It provides reusability and consistency.

Instead of:

COPY INTO EMP
FROM @stage
FILE_FORMAT = (
    TYPE = CSV
    FIELD_DELIMITER = ','
    SKIP_HEADER = 1
);

we can create the format once:

CREATE FILE FORMAT emp_format
TYPE = CSV
FIELD_DELIMITER = ','
SKIP_HEADER = 1;

and reuse it:

COPY INTO EMP
FROM @stage
FILE_FORMAT = emp_format;
2. JSON Parsing

JSON is a very common Snowflake interview topic.

5. How does Snowflake store semi-structured JSON data?

Snowflake commonly uses the VARIANT data type for semi-structured data such as JSON.

Example:

CREATE TABLE CUSTOMER_JSON (
    DATA VARIANT
);
6. How do you load JSON into a VARIANT column?

Create JSON file format:

CREATE FILE FORMAT json_format
TYPE = JSON;

Then:

COPY INTO CUSTOMER_JSON
FROM @my_stage
FILE_FORMAT = json_format;
7. Suppose JSON contains this data:
{
  "id": 101,
  "name": "John",
  "salary": 50000
}

How do you retrieve name?

SELECT DATA:name
FROM CUSTOMER_JSON;
8. How do you retrieve multiple JSON attributes?
SELECT
    DATA:id::INT AS ID,
    DATA:name::VARCHAR AS NAME,
    DATA:salary::NUMBER AS SALARY
FROM CUSTOMER_JSON;

Important point:

: is used to navigate JSON/VARIANT fields.

9. What is the difference between : and ::?
DATA:name

accesses the JSON element.

DATA:name::VARCHAR

accesses the element and casts it to VARCHAR.

Example:

SELECT DATA:salary::NUMBER
FROM CUSTOMER_JSON;
10. How do you access a nested JSON object?

Example:

{
  "customer": {
    "id": 101,
    "name": "John"
  }
}

Query:

SELECT DATA:customer:id::INT
FROM CUSTOMER_JSON;
11. How do you access an array in JSON?

Example:

{
  "orders": [
    {"id": 1, "amount": 100},
    {"id": 2, "amount": 200}
  ]
}

You can use array indexing:

SELECT DATA:orders[0]:id
FROM CUSTOMER_JSON;
12. What is FLATTEN in Snowflake?

FLATTEN is a table function used to convert nested arrays or objects into rows.

Example:

SELECT
    f.value:id::INT AS ORDER_ID,
    f.value:amount::NUMBER AS AMOUNT
FROM CUSTOMER_JSON,
LATERAL FLATTEN(INPUT => DATA:orders) f;

This is a very good interview question.

3. Parquet Parsing
13. What is Parquet?

Parquet is a columnar file format commonly used in data engineering and analytics workloads.

14. How do you load Parquet data into Snowflake?

Create a Parquet file format:

CREATE FILE FORMAT parquet_format
TYPE = PARQUET;

Then:

COPY INTO EMP
FROM @emp_stage
FILE_FORMAT = parquet_format;
15. How do you query Parquet data before loading it into a table?

Snowflake can query staged files using the stage location and file-format information.

For example:

SELECT
    $1:id::INT,
    $1:name::VARCHAR
FROM @emp_stage
(
    FILE_FORMAT => 'parquet_format'
);

The exact syntax can vary depending on the query/use case, but the important interview concept is:

Staged Parquet data can be queried using positional references such as $1, with nested fields accessed through the semi-structured syntax.

16. What is $1 in Snowflake file querying?

$1, $2, etc. are positional references to columns/records returned from staged files.

For example:

SELECT $1
FROM @my_stage;
4. Time Travel

This is extremely important for Snowflake interviews.

17. What is Time Travel?

Time Travel allows you to access or restore historical data that was changed or deleted within the configured retention period.

It can help recover from:

Accidental DELETE
Accidental UPDATE
Accidental DROP
Data corruption
18. Example of Time Travel

Suppose:

DELETE FROM EMP
WHERE EMP_ID = 101;

You realize the deletion was accidental.

You can query the historical version:

SELECT *
FROM EMP
AT (OFFSET => -60*5);

This queries the table as it existed approximately 5 minutes earlier.

19. What is AT in Time Travel?

AT allows you to query historical data at a specific point in time.

Example:

SELECT *
FROM EMP
AT (TIMESTAMP => '2026-09-07 10:00:00');
20. What is BEFORE?

BEFORE allows you to access data immediately before a specified point in time/statement.

Example concept:

SELECT *
FROM EMP
BEFORE (STATEMENT => '01abc...');
21. Can Time Travel recover a dropped table?

Depending on the object's state and retention period, a dropped table can potentially be restored using UNDROP.

UNDROP TABLE EMP;
22. What is the difference between Time Travel and Fail-safe?
Time Travel	Fail-safe
User-accessible historical data	Snowflake-managed recovery mechanism
Used for accidental changes/deletions	Used for disaster recovery
Can query/restore historical data	Not intended as a user-accessible historical query feature
Configurable retention	Separate Snowflake-managed period

Interview answer:

Time Travel is primarily for user-accessible historical data recovery, while Fail-safe is a Snowflake-managed disaster recovery mechanism.

5. Zero-Copy Cloning
23. What is Zero-Copy Cloning?

Zero-Copy Cloning creates a clone of a database, schema, or table without immediately creating a separate physical copy of the underlying data.

Example:

CREATE TABLE EMP_DEV
CLONE EMP;
24. Why is it called Zero-Copy?

Because Snowflake initially does not physically duplicate all the underlying data.

The clone references the existing micro-partition data.

When changes are made, Snowflake uses additional storage for the changed data.

25. What can you clone?

Commonly:

Database
Schema
Table
Other supported objects

Example:

CREATE DATABASE DEV_DB
CLONE PROD_DB;
26. Why is cloning useful in development?

Suppose production contains:

PROD_DB
   |
   +-- SALES
   +-- CUSTOMER
   +-- ORDERS

Developers need a copy for testing.

Instead of copying millions of rows:

CREATE DATABASE DEV_DB
CLONE PROD_DB;

Now developers can work with a clone efficiently.

27. Does changing the clone change the original table?

No.

Example:

CREATE TABLE EMP_TEST
CLONE EMP;

Then:

UPDATE EMP_TEST
SET SALARY = SALARY * 2;

The original EMP table is not modified.

28. What happens to storage when data is modified in a clone?

Snowflake uses additional storage for changed/new micro-partitions rather than duplicating unchanged data.

This is sometimes explained as:

Before changes:

Original ──┐
            ├── Shared micro-partitions
Clone ──────┘

After clone changes:

Original → Original micro-partitions
Clone    → Changed/new micro-partitions
6. Data Sharing
29. What is Snowflake Data Sharing?

Snowflake Data Sharing allows one Snowflake account/provider to share data with another Snowflake account without copying the underlying data.

30. Does the consumer need to copy the provider's data?

No.

The consumer can access the shared data without creating a traditional physical copy of the provider's data.

31. What is a Secure Data Share?

A provider creates a share and grants objects to it.

Conceptually:

Provider Account
      |
      | SHARE
      ↓
Consumer Account
      |
      ↓
Access shared data
32. What is the advantage of Snowflake Data Sharing?

Major advantages:

No traditional data copying
Near real-time access to shared data
Secure
Reduces data movement
Provider controls what is shared
33. Can the consumer modify the shared data?

Normally, the consumer cannot modify the provider's shared objects directly.

The shared data is provided as read-only access.

34. What is a Data Provider?

The account that owns/provides the data.

Provider → Shares data
35. What is a Data Consumer?

The account that receives/accesses the shared data.

Consumer → Uses shared data
⭐ Scenario-Based Questions

These are the questions I strongly recommend using in your students' mock interviews.

Scenario 1

You accidentally deleted 10,000 records. How will you recover them?

Expected answer:

I would use Snowflake Time Travel to access the historical version of the table and restore the required data.

Scenario 2

Your development team wants a copy of a 5 TB production table for testing. Would you use CTAS?

Good answer:

I would consider Zero-Copy Cloning instead of physically copying the entire table.

CREATE TABLE DEV_EMP
CLONE PROD_EMP;
Scenario 3

Your company wants to share sales data with another Snowflake account without copying the data. What would you use?

Answer:

Snowflake Secure Data Sharing.

Scenario 4

You receive a JSON file containing nested arrays. How would you process it?

Answer:

Load the JSON into a VARIANT column and use JSON path notation and LATERAL FLATTEN() to process nested arrays.

Scenario 5

You receive Parquet files from an ETL pipeline. What file format will you create?

CREATE FILE FORMAT my_parquet_format
TYPE = PARQUET;
Scenario 6

You have CSV files with different delimiters. How can Snowflake know how to parse them?

Answer:

Use File Format Objects with appropriate file-format properties.

🔥 Final Interview Revision Table
Topic	One-line interview answer
File Format	Defines how Snowflake interprets files
CSV	Delimited text file format
JSON	Semi-structured format commonly loaded into VARIANT
VARIANT	Snowflake data type for semi-structured data
:	Access JSON/VARIANT element
::	Casts a value to another data type
FLATTEN	Converts nested arrays/objects into rows
Parquet	Columnar file format
Time Travel	Access/recover historical data within retention
AT	Query data at a historical point
BEFORE	Query data before a specified point
UNDROP	Restore supported dropped objects
Zero-Copy Clone	Creates a clone without immediately duplicating underlying data
Data Sharing	Share data across accounts without traditional data copying
Provider	Account that shares data
Consumer	Account that consumes shared data
⭐ Top 15 questions to practice
Explain Snowflake architecture.
What are micro-partitions?
Explain micro-partition pruning.
What is a File Format Object?
CSV File Format vs JSON File Format?
How do you parse JSON in Snowflake?
What is VARIANT?
What is FLATTEN?
How do you process Parquet files?
What is Time Travel?
Explain AT vs BEFORE.
Time Travel vs Fail-safe?
What is Zero-Copy Cloning?
How does Zero-Copy Cloning save storage?
What is Snowflake Data Sharing and how is it different from copying data?

Snowflake Interview Questions – Part 3
1. Data Masking
1. What is Data Masking in Snowflake?

Data masking is a security feature used to protect sensitive data by showing different values to different users based on their permissions.

Example:

Actual data:

Customer Name    Phone
John             9876543210

Authorized user:

John             9876543210

Unauthorized user:

John             XXXXXXXX10
2. What is a Masking Policy?

A masking policy defines the rules for how a column's value should be displayed.

Example:

CREATE OR REPLACE MASKING POLICY phone_mask
AS (val STRING)
RETURNS STRING ->
    CASE
        WHEN CURRENT_ROLE() IN ('ADMIN_ROLE')
        THEN val
        ELSE 'XXXXXXXX' || RIGHT(val, 2)
    END;

Apply it:

ALTER TABLE CUSTOMER
MODIFY COLUMN PHONE
SET MASKING POLICY phone_mask;
3. What is the purpose of masking?

To protect sensitive information such as:

Phone numbers
Email addresses
Credit card numbers
Aadhaar/PAN-type identifiers
Salary
Customer information
4. Does masking change the actual data?

No.

Masking changes how the data is displayed, not the underlying stored value.

This is an important interview point.

5. What is the difference between masking and encryption?
Masking	Encryption
Controls what users see	Protects data through encryption
Usually applied at query/access time	Data is encrypted
Underlying value remains unchanged	Data is transformed into encrypted form
Used for sensitive-column visibility	Used for data protection
6. Scenario

HR has salary information, but only HR managers should see the actual salary. How would you implement it?

Answer:

I would create a Snowflake masking policy and return the actual salary for authorized roles while masking it for other roles.

2. Snowpipe
7. What is Snowpipe?

Snowpipe is Snowflake's continuous data ingestion service that automatically loads new files from a stage into a table.

Traditional approach:

File
 ↓
Stage
 ↓
COPY INTO
 ↓
Table

Snowpipe:

New File
   ↓
Stage
   ↓
Snowpipe
   ↓
Table
8. Why do we use Snowpipe?

When data arrives continuously and we don't want to manually execute COPY INTO every time.

Example:

Application
    ↓
Cloud Storage
    ↓
Snowpipe
    ↓
Snowflake
9. Is Snowpipe batch processing?

Snowpipe is designed for continuous/incremental file ingestion, rather than traditional large scheduled batch loads.

10. What is the difference between COPY INTO and Snowpipe?
COPY INTO	Snowpipe
Typically manually/scheduled executed	Continuously triggered
Good for batch loading	Good for continuous file ingestion
User/application initiates load	New-file events trigger ingestion
Can load large batches	Designed for incremental file loading
11. How does Snowpipe know that a new file arrived?

Cloud storage event notifications can notify Snowpipe that a new file is available.

Conceptually:

Azure Blob / S3 / GCS
          |
     New file event
          ↓
       Snowpipe
          ↓
     Snowflake Table
12. What is a Snowpipe definition?

A simplified example:

CREATE PIPE emp_pipe
AUTO_INGEST = TRUE
AS
COPY INTO EMP
FROM @EMP_STAGE
FILE_FORMAT = (FORMAT_NAME = emp_csv_format);
13. What is AUTO_INGEST?

AUTO_INGEST = TRUE allows Snowpipe to automatically initiate loading when new files arrive, using cloud event notifications.

14. Scenario

Your application generates a CSV file every 5 minutes. You want the data automatically loaded into Snowflake. What would you use?

Answer:

I would use Snowpipe with an external cloud stage and automatic ingestion.

3. Snowflake Tasks
15. What is a Snowflake Task?

A Task is an object used to execute SQL or stored procedures automatically according to a schedule or when triggered by another task.

Example:

CREATE TASK daily_task
WAREHOUSE = COMPUTE_WH
SCHEDULE = 'USING CRON 0 6 * * * UTC'
AS
INSERT INTO SALES_SUMMARY
SELECT CURRENT_DATE(), COUNT(*)
FROM SALES;
16. What can Tasks be used for?

Tasks can be used for:

ETL
ELT
Data transformation
Scheduled SQL
Stored procedure execution
Pipeline orchestration
17. How do you start a task?

After creating a task, it needs to be resumed:

ALTER TASK daily_task RESUME;
18. How do you suspend a task?
ALTER TASK daily_task SUSPEND;
19. What is a task schedule?

A task can run on a defined schedule.

Example:

SCHEDULE = 'USING CRON 0 2 * * * UTC'

or:

SCHEDULE = '5 MINUTE'
20. Can tasks have dependencies?

Yes.

Tasks can be organized into a task graph.

Example:

Task 1
  ↓
Task 2
  ↓
Task 3
  ↓
Task 4

This is useful for building data pipelines.

4. Streams
21. What is a Stream in Snowflake?

A Stream records information about changes to data in a table or supported object.

It can track changes such as:

INSERT
UPDATE
DELETE

This is commonly used for CDC (Change Data Capture).

22. Does a Stream store the complete table?

No.

A stream records change information/metadata about changes rather than being a copy of the complete source table.

23. How do you create a Stream?
CREATE STREAM emp_stream
ON TABLE EMP;
24. How do you see stream changes?
SELECT *
FROM emp_stream;

Streams expose metadata columns such as:

METADATA$ACTION
METADATA$ISUPDATE
METADATA$ROW_ID
25. What is METADATA$ACTION?

It indicates the type of change, such as:

INSERT
DELETE
26. What is METADATA$ISUPDATE?

It indicates whether the change is associated with an update operation.

An update can be represented through change records that allow downstream processing to identify the change.

27. How are Streams and Tasks used together?

This is a very common interview question.

Source Table
     |
     ↓
   Stream
     |
 Detect Changes
     |
     ↓
    Task
     |
 Transform / Process
     |
     ↓
Target Table

Example:

CREATE STREAM emp_stream
ON TABLE EMP;

Then a task can process the stream:

CREATE TASK process_emp
WAREHOUSE = COMPUTE_WH
SCHEDULE = '5 MINUTE'
AS
INSERT INTO EMP_TARGET
SELECT *
FROM emp_stream;
5. RBAC
28. What is RBAC?

RBAC = Role-Based Access Control.

It means permissions are assigned to roles, and roles are assigned to users.

Instead of:

User → Permission

Snowflake commonly uses:

User → Role → Privilege → Object
29. What is a Role?

A role is a collection of privileges.

Example:

CREATE ROLE analyst_role;
30. What is a Privilege?

A privilege defines what a role can do.

Examples:

SELECT
INSERT
UPDATE
DELETE
USAGE
CREATE TABLE
31. How do you grant SELECT permission?
GRANT SELECT
ON TABLE EMP
TO ROLE analyst_role;
32. How do you assign a role to a user?
GRANT ROLE analyst_role
TO USER JOHN;
33. What is the difference between Role and Privilege?

Role = collection of permissions.

Privilege = permission to perform an action on an object.

Example:

SELECT privilege
       ↓
analyst_role
       ↓
John
34. What is role hierarchy?

One role can be granted to another role.

Example:

GRANT ROLE analyst_role
TO ROLE manager_role;

Now:

Manager Role
     |
     +---- Analyst Role
              |
              +---- SELECT

The higher-level role can inherit privileges from the lower-level role.

35. What is the difference between ACCOUNTADMIN, SECURITYADMIN and SYSADMIN?

A simplified interview explanation:

Role	Main responsibility
ACCOUNTADMIN	Highest-level account administration
SECURITYADMIN	Security, grants and role management responsibilities
SYSADMIN	Creates/manages many data objects and warehouses
Custom roles	Business-specific access

Interview tip: Avoid saying that every task should be performed using ACCOUNTADMIN. In production, follow least privilege.

🔥 Most Important Scenario Questions
Scenario 1 – Masking

Developers need access to the customer table, but they must not see full phone numbers. What would you implement?

Answer: Dynamic Data Masking using a masking policy.

Scenario 2 – Snowpipe

Files are continuously arriving in Azure Blob Storage. You want automatic ingestion into Snowflake.

Answer: Snowpipe with automatic ingestion.

Scenario 3 – Streams

You need to identify INSERT/UPDATE/DELETE changes from a source table.

Answer: Create a Stream and use it for CDC.

Scenario 4 – Tasks

You need to run a transformation every 15 minutes.

Answer: Create a scheduled Snowflake Task.

Scenario 5 – Stream + Task

You need to capture changes and process them automatically.

Answer:

Source Table
     ↓
   Stream
     ↓
    Task
     ↓
Target Table
Scenario 6 – RBAC

100 analysts need SELECT access to the SALES table. Would you grant SELECT individually to all 100 users?

Good answer:

No. I would create an analyst role, grant the required privileges to the role, and assign the role to the users.

CREATE ROLE analyst_role;

GRANT SELECT
ON TABLE SALES
TO ROLE analyst_role;

GRANT ROLE analyst_role
TO USER USER1;
⭐ Final Revision
Topic	Interview answer
Data Masking	Controls visibility of sensitive column values
Masking Policy	Defines how sensitive values should be displayed
Snowpipe	Continuous/automated file ingestion
AUTO_INGEST	Automatically triggers Snowpipe for new files
Task	Automates SQL/procedure execution
Task Graph	Defines dependencies between tasks
Stream	Captures table change information for CDC
CDC	Change Data Capture
Stream + Task	Common pattern for incremental processing
RBAC	Role-Based Access Control
Role	Collection of privileges
Privilege	Permission on an object
Role Hierarchy	Roles can inherit privileges from other roles
Least Privilege	Give users only the access they actually need


 Questions I would definitely ask in a Snowflake interview mock
Explain Snowflake architecture.
Explain micro-partitions and pruning.
Internal stage vs external stage.
User stage vs table stage vs named stage.
PUT vs COPY INTO.
What is a File Format Object?
How do you parse JSON?
How do you parse Parquet?
Explain Time Travel.
Explain Zero-Copy Cloning.
Explain Data Sharing.
What is Data Masking?
What is Snowpipe and how does AUTO_INGEST work?
What is a Stream?
How do Stream and Task work together?
What is a Task?
What is RBAC?
Role vs Privilege?
Explain role hierarchy.
Design a CDC pipeline using Stream + Task.


1. Disaster Recovery
1. What is Disaster Recovery in Snowflake?

Disaster Recovery (DR) is the process of ensuring that data and applications can continue operating or be recovered after a major failure or disaster.

Examples:

Cloud-region failure
Account failure
Data corruption
Accidental deletion
Infrastructure failure
2. How does Snowflake support Disaster Recovery?

Snowflake provides capabilities such as:

Time Travel
Fail-safe
Database replication
Cross-region replication
Failover/failback
Account replication for supported objects
3. Time Travel vs Disaster Recovery

This is a common interview question.

Time Travel	Disaster Recovery
Recovers historical data	Handles major system/region failures
Useful for accidental DELETE/UPDATE	Useful for business continuity
Works within retention period	Can use replication/failover
Primarily data recovery	Broader recovery strategy

Interview answer:

Time Travel is mainly for recovering historical data or accidental changes, whereas Disaster Recovery is designed to keep business systems available or recover them after major failures.

2. Snowflake Replication
4. What is Replication?

Replication is the process of copying Snowflake data and supported objects from one Snowflake account to another account.

Example:

Production Account
       |
       | Replication
       ↓
DR Account

The destination account can be used for disaster recovery or other purposes.

5. Why do we use replication?

Common reasons:

Disaster Recovery
Business continuity
Regional redundancy
Data locality
Creating a secondary environment
6. What is the difference between replication and cloning?
Replication	Cloning
Copies data/objects between accounts	Creates a copy/clone within supported scope
Used for DR and redundancy	Often used for development/testing
Can involve different regions	Typically within the Snowflake environment
Data is replicated asynchronously	Zero-copy initially
3. Cross-Region Replication
7. What is Cross-Region Replication?

Cross-region replication means replicating Snowflake data and supported objects from an account in one geographic region to an account in another region.

Example:

AWS US East
Production
     |
     | Cross-Region Replication
     ↓
Azure West Europe
DR

The exact cloud provider/region combination depends on Snowflake's supported replication configuration.

8. Why do companies use Cross-Region Replication?

Suppose your primary Snowflake environment is in:

Region A

and Region A experiences a major outage.

You can maintain a secondary environment in:

Region B

and use it as part of your DR strategy.

9. Is Snowflake replication synchronous?

Typically, Snowflake replication is asynchronous.

This means there can be some delay between the source and target.

10. What is RPO?

RPO = Recovery Point Objective

It answers:

"How much data can we afford to lose?"

Example:

RPO = 15 minutes

The business accepts potentially losing up to 15 minutes of changes in a disaster scenario.

11. What is RTO?

RTO = Recovery Time Objective

It answers:

"How quickly must the system be restored?"

Example:

RTO = 1 hour

The organization wants the application restored within one hour.

⭐ RPO vs RTO
RPO	RTO
How much data can we lose?	How quickly must we recover?
Data loss tolerance	Downtime tolerance
Measured in time	Measured in time
4. Alerting
12. What is Alerting in Snowflake?

Snowflake Alerts allow you to monitor conditions and execute an action when a condition becomes true.

Example:

If today's sales are less than 10,000, send an alert.

Conceptually:

Data
 ↓
Condition
 ↓
Alert
 ↓
Action
13. What can Alerts be used for?

Examples:

Monitor failed data loads
Monitor row counts
Detect unusual data conditions
Monitor stale data
Monitor storage/usage conditions
Trigger notifications or actions
14. Example Alert

Conceptually:

CREATE ALERT low_sales_alert
WAREHOUSE = COMPUTE_WH
SCHEDULE = '1 HOUR'
IF (
    EXISTS (
        SELECT 1
        FROM SALES
        WHERE SALE_DATE = CURRENT_DATE()
        GROUP BY SALE_DATE
        HAVING SUM(AMOUNT) < 10000
    )
)
THEN
    -- action
;

For an interview, students don't need to memorize every Alert syntax detail. They should understand:

Alert = condition + schedule + action.

15. Task vs Alert

Very important.

Task	Alert
Executes work	Monitors a condition
Runs SQL/procedure	Checks whether condition is true
Used for automation	Used for monitoring/notification/action
Can form task graphs	Can trigger an action when condition is met
5. Snowflake Caching

This is an extremely important performance interview topic.

Students should know the three commonly discussed cache areas:

Snowflake Caching
       |
       +---- Result Cache
       |
       +---- Metadata Cache
       |
       +---- Warehouse Cache
6. Result Cache
16. What is Result Cache?

The Result Cache stores the result of a previously executed query so Snowflake can potentially return the existing result instead of executing the query again.

Example:

First execution:

SELECT COUNT(*)
FROM SALES;

Snowflake executes the query.

If the same query can reuse a valid cached result:

SELECT COUNT(*)
FROM SALES;

Snowflake may return the cached result.

17. Does Result Cache require warehouse compute?

When a query can be served directly from the persisted query result cache, Snowflake does not need to use warehouse compute to execute that query.

This is why repeated queries can be extremely fast.

18. What can cause a query not to reuse the result cache?

Examples include changes that make the previous result no longer valid, such as:

Underlying data changes
Query differences
Certain session/context differences
Expiration of the cached result
7. Metadata Cache
19. What is Metadata Cache?

Snowflake maintains metadata about objects and data, which helps query processing and optimization.

Metadata includes information such as:

Table information
Column information
Micro-partition statistics
Min/max values
Other object metadata

This helps Snowflake make decisions such as:

"Which micro-partitions do I actually need to scan?"

20. How does metadata help performance?

Suppose a table has 1,000 micro-partitions.

Query:

SELECT *
FROM SALES
WHERE SALE_DATE = '2026-09-01';

Snowflake can use metadata to determine which micro-partitions may contain that date and skip irrelevant ones.

This is micro-partition pruning.

8. Warehouse Cache
21. What is Warehouse Cache?

A running Snowflake Virtual Warehouse can cache data that it has accessed, helping subsequent queries reuse data and reduce the need to retrieve it again from remote storage.

This is often referred to as the warehouse/local disk cache.

22. What happens when a warehouse is suspended?

The warehouse's local cache is lost when the compute resources are released.

When the warehouse starts again, data may need to be read again from remote storage.

This is an important interview point.

23. Result Cache vs Warehouse Cache
Result Cache	Warehouse Cache
Stores query results	Caches accessed data
Can avoid query execution	Helps query execution
Can be reused without warehouse compute	Requires warehouse compute
Independent of a running warehouse	Associated with warehouse compute
9. Performance Optimization

This is probably the most important advanced interview area.

24. How do you improve Snowflake query performance?

A strong answer should mention:

Query pruning
Clustering where appropriate
Selecting only required columns
Avoiding unnecessary SELECT *
Optimizing joins
Filtering early
Appropriate warehouse sizing
Query Profile analysis
Result cache
Warehouse cache
Materialized views where appropriate
Search Optimization Service for suitable workloads
Avoiding unnecessary data movement
Efficient file sizing for ingestion
Monitoring expensive queries
10. Query Profile
25. What is Query Profile?

Query Profile helps you understand how Snowflake executed a query.

You can investigate:

Table scans
Joins
Aggregations
Filters
Spilling
Bytes scanned
Execution time
Expensive operators
26. What would you check if a query is slow?

Good interview answer:

First, I would check the Query Profile to identify the expensive operation. Then I would check bytes scanned, partition pruning, joins, spills, warehouse size, clustering, and whether the query can benefit from caching or other optimization techniques.

11. Warehouse Sizing
27. Does increasing warehouse size always improve performance?

No.

Increasing the warehouse size provides more compute resources, but it does not automatically fix every performance problem.

For example, if the problem is:

Poor filtering
Poor joins
Large data scan
Poor clustering

simply increasing warehouse size may not be the best solution.

28. When would you increase warehouse size?

When the workload genuinely needs more compute resources.

For example:

XS → S → M → L → XL

The appropriate size depends on workload requirements.

12. Scaling vs Optimization
29. What is the difference between scaling and query optimization?

Scaling:

Increase compute resources.

Small Warehouse
      ↓
Large Warehouse

Optimization:

Improve the query/data design itself.

Poor Query
   ↓
Better filters
Better joins
Pruning
Clustering
Better SQL

A good engineer should determine why the query is slow before simply increasing warehouse size.

13. Scenario-Based Interview Questions
Scenario 1 – Slow Query

A query scans 5 TB of data but returns only 10 MB. What would you investigate?

Expected answer:

I would investigate filtering, micro-partition pruning, clustering, unnecessary columns, join conditions, and Query Profile.

Scenario 2 – Repeated Query

A BI dashboard executes the same query repeatedly and the result hasn't changed. How can Snowflake improve performance?

Answer:

Result caching may allow Snowflake to reuse the previous query result.

Scenario 3 – Warehouse Restart

A warehouse was suspended overnight. The first query in the morning is slower than subsequent queries. Why?

Answer:

The warehouse's local cache was lost when the compute resources were suspended. Subsequent queries may benefit from the warehouse cache being populated again.

Scenario 4 – Disaster

Your production Snowflake account is in Region A and the region experiences a major outage. Your company has a secondary Snowflake environment in Region B. What technology supports this architecture?

Answer:

Cross-region replication, combined with an appropriate failover/failback strategy.

Scenario 5 – Data Loss

A developer accidentally deletes records. Do you immediately use cross-region replication?

No.

First consider:

Time Travel, because the problem is accidental data modification rather than a regional disaster.

Scenario 6 – Monitoring

You want to monitor whether today's data has arrived and trigger an action if it hasn't.

Possible solution:

Use a Snowflake Alert to evaluate the condition and trigger an action.

🔥 Final Revision Table
Topic	Interview Answer
Disaster Recovery	Strategy to recover/continue operations after major failures
Replication	Replicates Snowflake data/objects to another account/environment
Cross-Region Replication	Replication between different geographic regions
RPO	Maximum acceptable data loss
RTO	Maximum acceptable recovery time
Alert	Monitors a condition and performs an action
Result Cache	Reuses valid previous query results
Metadata	Helps optimization, pruning and query planning
Warehouse Cache	Caches accessed data on warehouse compute
Query Profile	Shows how a query was executed
Clustering	Helps improve pruning for suitable large tables/workloads
Scaling	Increasing compute resources
Optimization	Improving SQL/data design/execution efficiency

Explain Snowflake Disaster Recovery.
What is replication?
What is cross-region replication?
Why is replication asynchronous?
What is RPO?
What is RTO?
RPO vs RTO?
Time Travel vs Disaster Recovery?
What is Snowflake Alert?
Alert vs Task?
What is Result Cache?
What is Metadata Cache?
What is Warehouse Cache?
Result Cache vs Warehouse Cache?
What happens to warehouse cache when a warehouse is suspended?
How do you troubleshoot a slow query?
What is Query Profile?
Does increasing warehouse size always improve performance?
What is micro-partition pruning?
Design a Snowflake architecture for Disaster Recovery across two regions.

Yes. Add these as the next Snowflake interview topics. These are especially useful for performance and architecture-based questions.

Snowflake Interview Questions – Part 5
1. Cluster Keys / Clustering Keys
1. What is a Cluster Key in Snowflake?

A clustering key specifies one or more columns that Snowflake should use to organize table data to improve micro-partition pruning for suitable large tables.

Example:

CREATE TABLE SALES (
    SALE_ID INT,
    CUSTOMER_ID INT,
    SALE_DATE DATE,
    AMOUNT NUMBER
)
CLUSTER BY (SALE_DATE);

Here:

SALE_DATE
   ↓
Clustering Key
   ↓
Better organization of micro-partitions
   ↓
Better pruning
   ↓
Potentially better query performance
2. Why do we use clustering keys?

Suppose you have a very large SALES table and most queries contain:

WHERE SALE_DATE BETWEEN '2026-01-01' AND '2026-01-31'

A suitable clustering strategy can help Snowflake eliminate irrelevant micro-partitions.

3. Is clustering required for every table?

No.

Snowflake automatically organizes data into micro-partitions.

Clustering keys are generally considered when tables are large and queries frequently filter or join on columns where better clustering can materially improve pruning.

4. How do you define a clustering key?

At table creation:

CREATE TABLE SALES (
    SALE_ID INT,
    SALE_DATE DATE,
    CUSTOMER_ID INT,
    AMOUNT NUMBER
)
CLUSTER BY (SALE_DATE);

For an existing table:

ALTER TABLE SALES
CLUSTER BY (SALE_DATE);
5. Can we have multiple clustering columns?

Yes.

CLUSTER BY (SALE_DATE, CUSTOMER_ID);

But don't blindly add many columns. The clustering strategy should match the workload.

6. Does a clustering key physically create an index?

No.

This is an important interview question.

Snowflake clustering keys are not traditional indexes.

They influence how data is organized across micro-partitions so that pruning can be more effective.

7. What is Automatic Clustering?

Snowflake can automatically maintain clustering for tables that have a clustering key when reclustering is needed and supported by the account/workload.

The goal is to maintain effective data organization as new data is added or existing data changes.

8. When should you consider a clustering key?

A good interview answer:

I would consider clustering for a large table where queries frequently filter or join on specific columns and Query Profile/pruning information indicates that poor clustering is causing excessive micro-partition scanning.

9. Scenario

A 20 TB SALES table is frequently queried using SALE_DATE, but queries scan a very large percentage of micro-partitions. What would you investigate?

Answer:

I would first inspect Query Profile and clustering/pruning information. If the workload is suitable, I would consider SALE_DATE as a clustering key.

2. Snowflake Editions

This is another interview topic students often get asked.

Snowflake offers different account editions, with capabilities increasing as you move to higher editions.

The commonly discussed editions are:

Standard
Enterprise
Business Critical
Virtual Private Snowflake (VPS)
10. What is Snowflake Standard Edition?

Standard is the basic Snowflake edition providing core capabilities for:

Data warehousing
SQL analytics
Data loading
Basic security
Standard Snowflake features
11. What is Enterprise Edition?

Enterprise provides additional enterprise-oriented capabilities over Standard, including enhanced governance/security and features intended for more demanding workloads.

12. What is Business Critical Edition?

Business Critical is designed for organizations with stronger requirements around:

Security
Compliance
Sensitive data
High availability
Business continuity

It includes capabilities such as enhanced security features and support for certain failover/replication scenarios.

13. What is Virtual Private Snowflake?

VPS is the highest isolation-oriented Snowflake offering.

It provides stronger isolation and security capabilities for organizations with particularly stringent requirements.

14. Standard vs Enterprise vs Business Critical

For interviews, teach students this simplified comparison:

Feature/Area	Standard	Enterprise	Business Critical
Core Snowflake	✅	✅	✅
Enterprise features	—	✅	✅
Enhanced security/governance	Basic	More	Advanced
Sensitive workloads	Limited	Good	Strong
High availability/DR capabilities	Basic	More options	Advanced
Typical usage	General workloads	Enterprise workloads	Mission-critical workloads

Interview tip: Snowflake feature availability can depend on the specific feature, cloud, region, and current Snowflake offering, so students should avoid memorizing an absolute "feature X always requires edition Y" rule without checking current documentation.

3. Multi-Cluster Warehouse

This is very important for performance interviews.

15. What is a Multi-Cluster Warehouse?

A multi-cluster warehouse allows Snowflake to start multiple compute clusters for the same virtual warehouse to handle concurrent workloads.

Instead of:

Users
  |
  ↓
One Cluster

you can have:

             ┌── Cluster 1
Users ───────┼── Cluster 2
             └── Cluster 3
16. Why do we need Multi-Cluster Warehouses?

The main purpose is to handle high concurrency.

Suppose:

500 BI users
     ↓
Dashboard queries
     ↓
Same warehouse

A single cluster may become heavily loaded.

A multi-cluster warehouse can add clusters to handle the concurrency.

17. How do you create a Multi-Cluster Warehouse?

Example:

CREATE WAREHOUSE BI_WH
WITH
WAREHOUSE_SIZE = 'MEDIUM'
MIN_CLUSTER_COUNT = 1
MAX_CLUSTER_COUNT = 3
AUTO_SUSPEND = 300
AUTO_RESUME = TRUE;

This means:

Minimum clusters = 1
Maximum clusters = 3

Snowflake can add clusters based on workload/concurrency according to the warehouse's scaling policy.

18. What is MIN_CLUSTER_COUNT?

It defines the minimum number of clusters that the warehouse maintains when running.

Example:

MIN_CLUSTER_COUNT = 1
19. What is MAX_CLUSTER_COUNT?

It defines the maximum number of clusters that can run for the warehouse.

Example:

MAX_CLUSTER_COUNT = 5
20. What is the difference between Single Cluster and Multi-Cluster Warehouse?
Single Cluster	Multi-Cluster
One compute cluster	Multiple compute clusters
Suitable for normal workloads	Useful for high concurrency
Limited concurrency capacity	Can handle more concurrent queries
Doesn't automatically add clusters	Can scale clusters based on workload
4. Multi-Cluster Scaling Policies
21. What is Scaling Policy?

Snowflake provides policies that determine how aggressively a multi-cluster warehouse starts additional clusters.

The commonly discussed policies are:

STANDARD
ECONOMY
22. What is STANDARD scaling policy?

STANDARD is more responsive to workload/concurrency demands.

It prioritizes keeping query queuing lower by starting additional clusters sooner when needed.

23. What is ECONOMY scaling policy?

ECONOMY attempts to conserve credits by keeping the warehouse from starting additional clusters as aggressively.

This can mean more query queuing compared with STANDARD.

24. STANDARD vs ECONOMY
STANDARD	ECONOMY
Prioritizes responsiveness	Prioritizes credit efficiency
More aggressive scaling	Less aggressive scaling
Better for high-concurrency workloads	Useful when cost is a higher priority
5. Very Important Interview Question
25. Does Multi-Cluster Warehouse make one query run faster?

Not necessarily.

This is a common trap.

Multi-cluster warehouses primarily address concurrency, not the performance of a single query.

Example:

100 users
   ↓
100 queries
   ↓
Multi-cluster warehouse

Multiple clusters can handle concurrent queries.

But if:

1 badly optimized query

is slow, adding more clusters isn't necessarily the solution.

6. Scaling Up vs Scaling Out

This is an excellent interview question.

Scaling Up

Increase the size of the warehouse:

MEDIUM
   ↓
LARGE
   ↓
XLARGE

This provides more compute resources to a cluster.

Scaling Out

Increase the number of clusters:

1 Cluster
   ↓
2 Clusters
   ↓
3 Clusters

This is what a multi-cluster warehouse does.

⭐ Interview Answer

Scaling up means increasing the warehouse size to give a cluster more compute power. Scaling out means adding more clusters to handle higher concurrency.

7. Scenario-Based Questions
Scenario 1

A single complex query is taking 20 minutes. Would you immediately create a multi-cluster warehouse?

Answer: No.

I would first investigate:

Query Profile
Bytes scanned
Micro-partition pruning
Joins
Data volume
Clustering
Query design
Warehouse size

Multi-cluster warehouses are mainly designed for concurrency.

Scenario 2

300 users are simultaneously using Power BI dashboards against the same Snowflake warehouse. Queries are waiting in the queue. What would you consider?

Answer:

A multi-cluster warehouse may be appropriate because the problem is concurrent workload rather than necessarily a single slow query.

Scenario 3

Your warehouse is MEDIUM and a single query needs more compute power.

What would you consider?

MEDIUM → LARGE

This is scaling up.

Scenario 4

Your warehouse handles queries well for 10 users but queues heavily when 200 users connect simultaneously.

What would you consider?

Single Cluster
      ↓
Multi-Cluster

This is scaling out for concurrency.

Scenario 5 – Clustering

A huge SALES table is frequently filtered by SALE_DATE. Query Profile shows poor pruning. What could you investigate?

Answer:

I would investigate the table's clustering and consider a clustering key on SALE_DATE if the workload and table size justify it.


Sure. For students attending Snowflake Data Engineer interviews, I would focus on these 20 Snowpark interview questions, with short interview-ready answers.

Snowpark – 20 Interview Questions
1. What is Snowpark?

Interview answer:

Snowpark is Snowflake's developer framework that allows developers to write data-processing and transformation logic using programming languages such as Python, Java, and Scala, while executing the processing inside Snowflake.

2. What is the main advantage of Snowpark?

The main advantage is that we can use programming languages such as Python while keeping the data inside Snowflake.

Traditional:
Snowflake → Download data → Python → Process

Snowpark:
Snowflake
    ↓
Snowpark Python
    ↓
Process inside Snowflake

This reduces unnecessary data movement.

3. What is a Snowpark DataFrame?

A Snowpark DataFrame represents a lazily evaluated relational dataset.

Example:

df = session.table("EMP")

df.show()

It is similar conceptually to a DataFrame in Pandas/PySpark, but Snowpark is designed to execute operations in Snowflake.

4. Snowpark DataFrame vs Pandas DataFrame?
Snowpark	Pandas
Processing can execute in Snowflake	Processing happens in Python environment
Designed for large data in Snowflake	Usually works with data available to Python
Reduces data movement	May require data movement
Uses Snowflake compute	Uses local/server Python resources
5. What is a Snowpark Session?

A Session represents the connection between the Snowpark application and Snowflake.

Example:

from snowflake.snowpark import Session

session = Session.builder.configs(connection_parameters).create()

You use the session to:

Access tables
Create DataFrames
Execute SQL
Create objects
Perform transformations
6. How do you read a Snowflake table using Snowpark?
df = session.table("EMP")

You can then:

df.show()
7. How do you select columns?
df.select("EMP_ID", "NAME", "SALARY").show()
8. How do you filter data in Snowpark?
from snowflake.snowpark.functions import col

df.filter(col("SALARY") > 50000).show()
9. What is lazy evaluation in Snowpark?

Snowpark does not immediately execute most DataFrame transformations.

For example:

df2 = df.filter(col("SALARY") > 50000)

The transformation is constructed first.

Execution happens when an action is triggered, such as:

df2.show()

or:

df2.collect()

Interview answer:

Snowpark uses lazy evaluation, meaning transformations are not immediately executed. Snowflake executes the generated plan when an action requires results.

10. What is the difference between transformation and action?

Transformation:

Defines how data should be transformed.

Examples:

filter()
select()
join()
group_by()
with_column()

Action:

Triggers execution.

Examples include:

show()
collect()
count()
11. How do you perform a join in Snowpark?
emp = session.table("EMP")
dept = session.table("DEPT")

result = emp.join(
    dept,
    emp["DEPT_ID"] == dept["DEPT_ID"]
)
12. How do you perform aggregation?
from snowflake.snowpark.functions import col, sum

result = (
    df.group_by("DEPT_ID")
      .agg(sum(col("SALARY")).alias("TOTAL_SALARY"))
)
13. How do you create a new column?

Using with_column():

from snowflake.snowpark.functions import col

df2 = df.with_column(
    "BONUS",
    col("SALARY") * 0.10
)
14. What are Snowpark UDFs?

A User-Defined Function (UDF) allows you to implement custom business logic using supported programming languages such as Python, Java, or Scala.

Example:

from snowflake.snowpark.functions import udf

@udf
def calculate_bonus(salary: float) -> float:
    return salary * 0.10

Then the function can be used in Snowpark processing.

15. What is a Stored Procedure in Snowpark?

A Snowpark stored procedure allows you to execute procedural/business logic inside Snowflake using languages such as Python.

For example, a Python procedure can:

Read table
   ↓
Transform data
   ↓
Execute SQL
   ↓
Load target table

This is useful for complex ETL/ELT logic.

16. Snowpark UDF vs Stored Procedure?
UDF	Stored Procedure
Returns a value	Performs a broader operation
Used inside SQL expressions	Used for procedural workflows
Usually operates on input values	Can execute multiple operations
Good for reusable calculations	Good for ETL/business workflows

Simple interview answer:

A UDF is primarily used to calculate and return a value, whereas a stored procedure is used to perform a sequence of operations.

17. What is a Snowpark UDTF?

UDTF = User-Defined Table Function.

Unlike a UDF, which returns a value, a UDTF can return multiple rows and columns.

Conceptually:

UDF
Input → One value

UDTF
Input → Multiple rows
18. How does Snowpark improve performance compared with moving data to Python?

Snowpark allows computation to be pushed into Snowflake.

Instead of:

Snowflake
   ↓
Download millions of rows
   ↓
Python
   ↓
Process

Snowpark can do:

Snowflake
   ↓
Snowpark
   ↓
Snowflake Compute
   ↓
Result

Therefore, unnecessary data movement can be reduced.

19. Does Snowpark DataFrame immediately bring all data into Python memory?

No.

This is a very important interview question.

A Snowpark DataFrame represents data that remains in Snowflake until an operation such as collect() requests the results.

For example:

df = session.table("EMP")

doesn't download the entire table into Python.

Be careful with:

df.collect()

because it brings the result set to the client.

20. Snowpark vs PySpark – What is the difference?
Snowpark	PySpark
Designed primarily for Snowflake	Designed for Apache Spark
Processing occurs in Snowflake	Processing occurs in Spark
Uses Snowflake compute	Uses Spark cluster
Excellent for Snowflake-centric workloads	Excellent for Spark/big-data ecosystems
Minimizes data movement from Snowflake	Often works across many storage systems

Interview answer:

PySpark is a programming API for Apache Spark, whereas Snowpark provides DataFrame and programming-language APIs that allow processing to run within Snowflake.

🔥 5 Scenario-Based Snowpark Questions

These are excellent for a real interview mock.

Scenario 1

You have 500 million rows in Snowflake. Your manager asks you to download the data into Python, process it, and upload it again. Would you do that?

Good answer:

No, not necessarily. I would consider Snowpark so that the transformation can execute within Snowflake and avoid unnecessary data movement.

Scenario 2

You have a complex business calculation that isn't easily expressed using standard SQL. What can you use?

Answer:

A Snowpark UDF can be considered for reusable custom logic.

Scenario 3

You need to execute multiple SQL and data-processing steps as one automated operation.

Answer:

A Snowpark stored procedure may be appropriate.

Scenario 4

You create this:

df = session.table("EMP")
df2 = df.filter(col("SALARY") > 50000)

Has Snowflake necessarily executed the query yet?

Answer:

No. Snowpark uses lazy evaluation. An action such as show() or collect() triggers execution.

Scenario 5

A developer uses collect() on a table containing 100 million rows. What concern do you have?

Answer:

collect() retrieves the result to the client, so pulling a huge result set into Python can cause memory and performance problems. I would keep processing inside Snowflake whenever possible.

⭐ Snowpark Interview Quick Revision
Topic	Short Answer
Snowpark	Developer framework for processing data in Snowflake
Session	Connection/context for Snowpark
DataFrame	Lazy representation of relational data
Lazy Evaluation	Transformations execute when required
Transformation	Defines data processing
Action	Triggers execution
UDF	Returns a value
UDTF	Returns rows/table
Stored Procedure	Executes procedural logic
select()	Select columns
filter()	Filter rows
join()	Join DataFrames
group_by()	Group data
agg()	Aggregate data
with_column()	Add/replace column
show()	Display results
collect()	Retrieve results to client
Snowpark vs Pandas	Snowpark processes in Snowflake
Snowpark vs PySpark	Snowpark runs on Snowflake; PySpark runs on Spark
Main Benefit	Reduce data movement and use Snowflake compute
Ad
Ads do not influence the answers you get from ChatGPT. Your chats stay private. 
Learn about ads and personalization


1. What is dbt?

Interview answer:

dbt (data build tool) is a transformation tool used to transform data inside a data warehouse using SQL. It helps implement analytics engineering practices such as modular SQL models, testing, documentation, version control, and dependency management.

Simple example
Source Data
    ↓
dbt
    ↓
Transformation
    ↓
Target Tables / Views

dbt generally focuses on the T in ELT—transforming data after it has been loaded into the warehouse.

2. What is a dbt Project?

A dbt project is a collection of SQL models, configuration files, tests, seeds, snapshots, macros, and other resources that together implement a data transformation workflow.

Typical structure:

my_dbt_project/
│
├── models/
├── seeds/
├── snapshots/
├── tests/
├── macros/
├── analyses/
│
├── dbt_project.yml
└── packages.yml
3. What is dbt_project.yml?

dbt_project.yml is the main configuration file of a dbt project.

It defines project-level settings such as:

Project name
Model locations
Model materializations
Seed configuration
Snapshot configuration
Test configuration
Documentation configuration

Example:

name: my_dbt_project

version: '1.0.0'

profile: my_dbt_project

model-paths: ["models"]
seed-paths: ["seeds"]
snapshot-paths: ["snapshots"]

models:
  my_dbt_project:
    staging:
      +materialized: view
Interview answer

dbt_project.yml is the primary configuration file that tells dbt how the project is structured and how different resources should be configured.

4. What is a dbt Model?

A model is a SQL file containing transformation logic that dbt uses to create a view, table, incremental table, or other supported relation in the target data warehouse.

Example:

SELECT
    employee_id,
    employee_name,
    salary
FROM employee;

File:

models/employee.sql

If configured as a table:

{{ config(materialized='table') }}

SELECT
    employee_id,
    employee_name,
    salary
FROM employee;
Interview answer

A dbt model is a SQL-based transformation that dbt executes in the data warehouse to create a data object such as a view, table, or incremental model.

5. What are the different materializations in dbt?

The commonly used materializations are:

View
Table
Incremental
Ephemeral

Example:

{{ config(materialized='table') }}

or:

{{ config(materialized='view') }}

or:

{{ config(materialized='incremental') }}
6. What is source.yml in dbt?

A source YAML file defines source tables that exist outside dbt models, usually tables loaded into the warehouse by another ingestion process.

Example:

version: 2

sources:
  - name: raw
    database: OUR_DB
    schema: RAW

    tables:
      - name: employees
      - name: departments

Then you can reference the source in SQL:

SELECT *
FROM {{ source('raw', 'employees') }}
Interview answer

A source YAML file defines and documents the raw or upstream tables that dbt consumes. The source() function is used to reference those tables in dbt models.

7. What is the source() function?

source() is used to reference a table defined under sources in a YAML file.

Example:

sources:
  - name: raw
    schema: RAW

    tables:
      - name: employees

Then:

SELECT *
FROM {{ source('raw', 'employees') }}
Why use source()?

It provides:

Dependency information
Documentation
Source freshness capabilities
Environment-aware database/schema references
Better lineage
8. What is ref() in dbt?

ref() is used to reference another dbt model.

Example:

stg_employee.sql
       ↓
employee.sql

In employee.sql:

SELECT *
FROM {{ ref('stg_employee') }}
Interview answer

ref() is used to reference another dbt model and automatically creates a dependency between the models.

9. What is the difference between source() and ref()?

This is a very important interview question.

source()	ref()
References source/upstream tables	References dbt models
Usually raw/ingested data	Usually transformed data
Defined under sources	Refers to dbt model
Example: source('raw','employee')	Example: ref('stg_employee')
Simple flow
RAW TABLE
   ↓
source()
   ↓
STAGING MODEL
   ↓
ref()
   ↓
TRANSFORMATION MODEL
   ↓
MART
10. What are dbt Seeds?

Seeds are CSV files stored inside the dbt project's seeds directory that dbt can load into the data warehouse as tables.

Example:

seeds/
   country_codes.csv
   department_codes.csv

Run:

dbt seed

dbt loads the CSV files into the configured target schema.

Example CSV
country_code,country_name
IN,India
US,United States
UK,United Kingdom
Interview answer

Seeds are CSV files maintained in a dbt project that can be loaded into the data warehouse using dbt seed. They are useful for small, relatively static reference data.

11. What is a dbt Snapshot?

A snapshot is used to capture and preserve historical changes to records over time.

It is commonly used to implement Slowly Changing Dimension Type 2 (SCD Type 2).

Example:

Employee
---------
ID   Name   Salary
1    John   50000

Later:

ID   Name   Salary
1    John   60000

A snapshot can preserve the previous version:

ID   Name   Salary   Valid From   Valid To
1    John   50000    Jan 1        Feb 1
1    John   60000    Feb 1        NULL
Interview answer

dbt snapshots are used to track changes in mutable source records and preserve their historical versions, commonly for implementing SCD Type 2.

12. What is dbt init?

dbt init is used to create a new dbt project.

Command:

dbt init my_dbt_project

It creates the basic project structure and configuration files.

Typical structure:

my_dbt_project/
│
├── models/
├── macros/
├── seeds/
├── snapshots/
├── tests/
└── dbt_project.yml
Interview answer

dbt init initializes a new dbt project with the basic directory structure and configuration.

13. What is dbt debug?

dbt debug is used to check whether the dbt environment and connection are configured correctly.

Command:

dbt debug

It helps verify things such as:

dbt installation
Profile configuration
Credentials
Warehouse connection
Project configuration
Interview answer

dbt debug is used to diagnose dbt configuration and connectivity problems.

14. What is dbt list?

dbt list is used to list resources in a dbt project.

Example:

dbt list

You can also use selectors to list specific resources.

For example:

dbt list --select my_model

It is useful for checking:

Models
Sources
Seeds
Snapshots
Other selectable resources
Interview answer

dbt list helps identify and inspect resources available in a dbt project.

15. What is dbt test?

dbt test runs tests defined in the dbt project.

Common generic tests include:

unique
not_null
accepted_values
relationships

Example:

columns:
  - name: employee_id
    tests:
      - unique
      - not_null

Run:

dbt test
Interview answer

dbt test validates data quality by executing tests defined for models, sources, and other supported resources.

16. What is dbt docs generate?
dbt docs generate

This command generates the documentation artifacts for the dbt project.

It collects information such as:

Models
Columns
Sources
Tests
Dependencies
Lineage information
Metadata
Interview answer

dbt docs generate generates the documentation metadata for the dbt project.

17. What is dbt docs serve?
dbt docs serve

This command starts a local web server so you can view the generated dbt documentation.

Typical workflow:

dbt docs generate
dbt docs serve

Then you can open the documentation in a browser.

18. What is Data Lineage in dbt?

Data lineage shows how data flows between sources and models.

For example:

RAW_EMPLOYEE
      ↓
   source()
      ↓
STG_EMPLOYEE
      ↓
    ref()
      ↓
DIM_EMPLOYEE
      ↓
FACT_SALARY

dbt can automatically understand these dependencies when you use:

{{ source(...) }}

and:

{{ ref(...) }}

This lineage can also be viewed through dbt documentation.

19. How do you load data incrementally in dbt?

For large tables, we don't always want to process the entire source table every time.

We can use an incremental model.

Example:

{{ config(
    materialized='incremental'
) }}

SELECT
    employee_id,
    employee_name,
    salary,
    updated_at
FROM {{ source('raw', 'employee') }}

{% if is_incremental() %}

WHERE updated_at >
      (SELECT MAX(updated_at) FROM {{ this }})

{% endif %}
How it works

First run:

Source
  ↓
All records
  ↓
Target table

Next run:

Source
  ↓
Only new/updated records
  ↓
Target

is_incremental() allows you to apply logic only when the model is being run incrementally.

{{ this }} refers to the current target relation.

20. How would you implement incremental loading using an ID?

Another common interview scenario is:

The source table has an increasing ID. How would you load only new records?

Example:

{{ config(
    materialized='incremental'
) }}

SELECT
    id,
    name,
    salary
FROM {{ source('raw', 'employee') }}

{% if is_incremental() %}

WHERE id >
      (SELECT MAX(id) FROM {{ this }})

{% endif %}
Initial load

Suppose source contains:

ID
--
1
2
3
4
5

First dbt run:

1 2 3 4 5

Target contains:

1 2 3 4 5

Later source contains:

1 2 3 4 5 6 7

Next dbt run:

WHERE id > 5

Only:

6
7

are processed.


1. What is a Seed in dbt?

A seed is a CSV file stored in the seeds directory of a dbt project that can be loaded into the data warehouse using dbt seed.

Example:

seeds/
   country_codes.csv
   department.csv

Run:

dbt seed
2. Why do we use Seeds in dbt?

Seeds are mainly used for small, static or relatively stable reference data.

Examples:

Country codes
State codes
Currency codes
Department mappings
Status mappings
Business lookup tables

Example:

country_code,country_name
IN,India
US,United States
UK,United Kingdom
3. Where are seed files stored?

Inside the project's seeds directory.

my_dbt_project/
│
├── models/
├── seeds/
│   ├── country.csv
│   └── department.csv
├── snapshots/
└── dbt_project.yml
4. Which command loads seed data into the warehouse?
dbt seed

To load a particular seed:

dbt seed --select country
5. Where does dbt create the seed table?

The seed CSV is loaded as a table in the target database/schema configured for the dbt environment, subject to the project's seed configuration.

For example:

CSV
 ↓
dbt seed
 ↓
Snowflake
 ↓
ANALYTICS.COUNTRY
6. Can we have multiple seed files?

Yes.

Example:

seeds/
├── country.csv
├── state.csv
├── department.csv
└── currency.csv

Running:

dbt seed

can load the project's applicable seed files.

7. Can we load only one seed?

Yes.

dbt seed --select country

You can also select multiple seeds using dbt selectors.

8. Can we use a seed inside a dbt model?

Yes.

Use the ref() function.

Example:

SELECT *
FROM {{ ref('country') }}

Important point:

A seed becomes a dbt-managed relation, so models can reference it using ref().

9. What is the difference between a Seed and a Source?

This is a very important interview question.

Seed	Source
CSV managed inside the dbt project	Existing upstream table/data
Loaded using dbt seed	Usually loaded by another ingestion process
Good for small reference data	Usually represents raw/upstream data
Referenced using ref()	Referenced using source()

Example:

country.csv
   ↓
dbt seed
   ↓
COUNTRY table
   ↓
ref()

Whereas:

External ingestion
      ↓
RAW_EMPLOYEE
      ↓
source()
10. Can we configure data types for a seed?

Yes.

You can configure column data types using a seed YAML configuration.

For example:

version: 2

seeds:
  - name: country
    config:
      column_types:
        country_code: varchar(10)
        country_name: varchar(100)

This is particularly useful when you want explicit warehouse column types instead of relying on automatic inference.

11. Can we configure the schema for Seeds?

Yes.

You can configure seed properties such as the target schema.

Example:

seeds:
  my_dbt_project:
    +schema: reference

Then seeds can be organized into a dedicated schema such as:

REFERENCE
   ├── COUNTRY
   ├── STATE
   └── CURRENCY
12. What happens if we modify the CSV and run dbt seed again?

This is a very important practical question.

If the seed file is changed and you run:

dbt seed

dbt processes the updated CSV and updates/rebuilds the corresponding seed relation according to the seed configuration and adapter behavior.

So students should remember:

CSV changed
   ↓
dbt seed
   ↓
Seed table updated
13. Can Seeds be used for millions of records?

Generally, no.

Seeds are intended for small reference/static datasets, not large operational or transactional datasets.

For millions of rows, use an appropriate ingestion mechanism such as:

Snowpipe
COPY INTO
Fivetran
ADF
Fabric Data Factory
Airflow
etc.

Then use dbt for transformation.

14. Can Seeds be incremental?

Not in the same way as an incremental dbt model.

A seed is essentially a CSV-driven relation. If you need sophisticated incremental processing of large datasets, an incremental model is generally more appropriate.

15. Can we test Seeds?

Yes.

You can define tests for seed columns.

Example:

version: 2

seeds:
  - name: country
    columns:
      - name: country_code
        data_tests:
          - not_null
          - unique

Then:

dbt test

can validate the seed data.